I already stated in our first response
video that I don't know or care about
mr. Potter's personal life I don't care
about his professional life shark and I
do care about people who ripoff
well-meaning donors and deprived the
animals of money raised supposedly for
their benefit we have exposed willpotter
for his Kickstarter campaign because he
took in more than $75,000 on a promise
to document abuses at factory farms for
me this video is not about any specific
political issue for me this video is
about a broad question of ethics honor
dignity one of the meaning of life and
leading a good life in the next five
minutes you're gonna see the particular
example or the particular case study
that I'm really using as the window
frame or the window dressing to take
glimpse into this issue but I'm not
particularly interested in delving into
the details of this one case study I
want to talk about those underlying
themes today I really did get upset
talking to Klaus from plant-based news
and the very last message I sent to
Klaus you know you know written series
of messages going back and forth said to
him you know clothes what happened to me
can happen to you
you also could get accused of being a
scam artist
you also could get falsely framed of
being a fraud you could face accusations
and allegations that discredit you in
your personal life your professional
life that suddenly make it impossible
for you to do fundraising for the things
that mattered to you most in his case he
is a YouTube channel called plant-based
news he has a website plant-based news
you could be cut off from all of that
and worse someone could make allegations
talking about your sex life
someone could make allegations claiming
that you're a sexual predator and it
wouldn't be hard to do it wouldn't be
hard to do either in terms of something
that's a complete lie or even just
putting together or selected fragments
of fact out of context and presenting
them in the most unflattering way what
happened to me clothes can happen to you
now I'm saying this too close because
the reality is clothes is one of the
people who did this to me clothes ran a
news service as mentioned and it really
does hurt me and impact me much more
that I had to face this kind of
defamation misrepresentation unfair
treatment from someone like clothes it
hurts me more coming from him and coming
from his seemingly respectable news
agency when they allegedly do research
and fact-checking and they claimed in
his words was he he claimed that there
was a lot of evidence that I was running
a scam when nothing in my life was a
scam everything was an open book it was
completely obvious it was going on he
could have very easily he didn't check
any facts he was recycling internet
rumors as fact without even putting any
thought into it
it's very damning and damaging to have a
source like him making that kind of
judgement and presenting it in the way
that he did and it hurts me personally
much much more than you know a teenager
with a YouTube account who just takes a
kind of fleeting interest in this and
jumps on a bandwagon of rumor and
innuendo of course both are bad but
there's a difference and of course one
of the differences between a real
newspaper or real magazine and just a
teenager you know mouthing off on the
internet whether it's on Facebook or
YouTube or what have you it's it's
supposed to be
newspapers do research they do
fact-checking
they have editorial standards and
ultimately they have accountability that
when they're wrong the issue or
attraction they shoe an apology maybe
they delete the original video or
original news article ever it is and
they they put up some kind of correction
or some kind of further article that
explains what the situation actually was
as opposed to how they they misrepresent
it before and most G Washington channel
already no nothing like that ever
happened with clothes and from my
perspective it was just this morning in
this time zone it was just this morning
that I was talking with us with Klaus
and I said and look how all of this can
happen to you and even I if I wanted to
I could do this to you I know enough
about clothes and his personal life I
could put together this kind of
defamation against him you know I'm not
gonna do that because I have personal
integrity and I go through this life
again and again being disappointed that
the people around me including authority
figures what university professors I'm
happy that the people around me seem to
have absolutely zero personal integrity
and I'm of course I was having this
conversation this morning with close
because I was so disappointed him
driving zero zero personal integrity I'm
disappointed with the vast majority of
people I met through the vegan movement
the animal rights movement and even more
broadly ecological political wounds I'm
I'm very disappointed that the vast
majority of people this is brought into
my life had zero personal integrity
and I've seen that again and again and
I'll be blunt with you I want out I mean
the cumulative effect of this it's
extremely demoralizing I didn't get
involved with this movement to be a
one-man movement
I didn't want to try to save the world
alone from the from day one on this
channel I was always talking about the
necessity of getting organized into
little groups of at least five people so
you can take on city hall do the
paperwork form a foundation start
lobbying government start getting
involved with going to the school boards
and complaining about you know dairy
industry propaganda being given to
children children being taught that milk
is healthy or whatever that whatever
they shoes doesn't even have to be mean
it whatever the issue is nobody can take
on this kind of lobbying this kind of
pressing for for social political change
nobody can do it alone or at least
nobody wants to even if it's just five
people you need to you need to get
organized and yeah it's really
incredibly demoralizing for me that
after so many years and reaching out to
so many people positively that I don't
have that group of five people I can't
rely on and instead what I've
encountered are thousands of people like
Klaus thousands so I ended this message
to close by saying this can happen to
you you can have your you can be put in
the position of having to clear your
name against allegations of fraud and
scam and scandal and sexual impropriety
that are totally unreasonable and
totally unfounded or in your case maybe
they're gonna be a mix of little bits
and pieces of fact taken out of context
and presented and unflattering and so
whatever it is there may be a mix of
fact in fiction or it may be complete
fiction in my case I think everything
was just complete fiction I was dealing
with but whatever the public seems to
take very little interest in in
distinguishing those things and that's
why journalism really matters that's why
people in position little positions of
with a little bit of authority like
Klaus why it really matters that they
use that use that correctly
I ended it by saying to him close all of
this can happen to you but one thing
will remain different you will not be in
the position that I was in of having to
face the possibility that you lose the
legal right to see your own daughter you
will not be in the position of
contesting a divorce and a custody
hearing in terms of your relationship
with your own infant daughter now five
years old that adds a dimension of
sorrow and seriousness to this that you
can't imagine close that's one of the
things that really raises the stakes
here so with all that haven't been said
I now go on to this controversy
involving Steve Hindi for about five
minutes of film here and Steve Hindi is
very quick to throw words like scam and
scam artists around and fraud and what
have you and you'll see lat a few more
words at the end of this video I am not
so quick I'm not so relaxed about making
those kinds of allegations and that for
me ultimately is a question of dignity
honour personal integrity previously on
shark today there are groups and
individuals who haul in donations based
on what they're going to do but then
there's no follow-through willpotter
claims to be an award-winning
investigative journalist in June 2014
willpotter announced he was going to
raise money for a drone project through
a campaign on kickstarter.com willpotter
stated he would use the drones to watch
over factory farms Potter called the
campaign drone on the farm on march 2
kiyomi Shimizu pointed is very
frustrating when project starters
disappear this is actually one of the
projects that have completely put me off
using Kickstarter all together on March
5 2015 Potter posted about an upcoming
kickstarter party that would include
vegan pizza snacks and beers on
10 willpotter posted that the
kickstarter party had been a success and
included pictures that was the final
Kickstarter update as time went on the
complaints continued the updates did not
and now on this week's episode
hi my name's Will Potter I'm an
investigative journalist and a faculty
member at the University of Michigan
what I'm about to say has been a very
long time coming so for instance I was
the first investigative journalist to be
selected as a TED fellow and while it
was a TED I met the founder of
Kickstarter who was also a TED fellow
and I told him I was thinking of
starting a project with drones to
investigate factory farms and he said it
sounded like an awesome idea so a few
months later I submitted the project and
it took off like wildfire it was funded
in hours massive media coverage places
like The Washington Post wanted to
follow along throughout this whole
experience this whole project in
research and not long after that though
I truly hit rock bottom the insomnia and
chronic depression PTSD the suicidal
ideations they're kind of all tangled
together like this big ball like of old
Christmas lights is how it always felt
in anyway like that the breaking point
for me was when I was having a
conversation with a mentor of mine
through Ted and that's when I finally
crashed like how bad all of this had to
come and he asked me to do this
role-playing exercise with them to think
through some of this stuff and he said
ok he would be willpotter and he said
all the comments that I've said about my
health or about why I didn't have time
to address it or whatever and then it
just broke me and one of the questions
this fake willpotter
asked me was what's going to happen if I
don't change course
and my immediate response was you're not
going to be here in a year and the speed
at which that came out of my mouth was
just this punch in the stomach and I
mean that's when I clicked that I knew
it was true I know it in my bones I
desperately needed a change and
thankfully I found one that applied for
the prestigious tonight Wallace
fellowship in journalism at the
University of Michigan it brings top
journalists from the New York Times and
BBC and outlets around the world for
this year of kind of study and retreat
in a way and just when I was starting to
feel like I had my feet planted under me
again is when the harassment started
Steve Hindi is kind of like the Alex
Jones of the animal rights movement
everything is one big conspiracy and
only he sees the world correctly only he
is out there crusading for justice
anyone who doesn't agree with him is the
enemy
this day the only actual evidence
showing that Potter even put any effort
into the project for which he took tens
of thousands of dollars appeared on the
2016 docu-series truth and power the
small amount of footage aired revealed
nothing more than him flying a toy
around shark made a few offers in 2014
to help will Potter get his project off
the ground shark has been flying drones
since 2010 when we know how valuable
they can be to help animals but mr.
Potter never even responded to our
offers anyone serious about developing a
drone operation will take an offer of
assistance because there are significant
challenges to such an operation mr.
Potter silence in response to our
efforts left us with little faith in his
dedication and now we know his promise
wasn't authentic to begin with mr.
Potter's current bio on Ted's website
makes no mention of his drone project
nor does mr. Potter mentioned in his bio
on his own website willpotter is
obviously abandoned his drone project
and he hasn't returned the money from
his donors nor has he given them an
explanation of where the money went why
would Ted stand behind someone who has
behaved in such a blatantly unscrupulous
and unethical manner
check out his Facebook post for March
1st depicting him wallowing in a
hospital bed while showcasing as many
expensive tattoos quote how I spent my
spring break my latest surgery went well
but recovery will be long there's never
a good time to be derailed like this but
it feels like getting kicked when I'm
already down end quote and quote
trolling by far-right neo-nazis and
other groups has escalated dramatically
through it all I had been working harder
at a higher level than I ever have
unquote I'm sorry but I can't tell what
work mr. Potter is supposedly doing well
whatever it is it certainly doesn't
include making proper use of the $75,000
plus that he took from good-hearted
people so he could fly drones over
factory farms I already stated in our
first response video that I don't know
or care about mr. Potter's personal life
I don't care about his professional life
shark and I do care about people who
ripoff well-meaning donors and deprive
the animals of money raised supposedly
for their benefit we have
spose willpotter for his Kickstarter
campaign because he took in more than
$75,000 on a promise to document abuses
at factory farms and more than four
years later he has at best a handful of
wide-angle still photos to show for it
you could practically get that for free
on google maps in our first response
video I posted my email address so
anyone could hold me accountable whether
they're from TED Talks which put up a
statement of support for mr. Potter's
false claims or anyone else now we have
an interesting phrase in the English
language that's show business a
five-year delay in filmmaking because
the director or producer for the project
has a mental breakdown is hospitalized
for a series of mysterious emotional or
physical maladies does that mean the
project is a scam does that mean it's a
fraud a lot of people would say no I
think a lot of people with experience in
filmmaking would be able to give you a
long list of examples of successful
projects that had five years delays in
production research preparation whatever
the case may be sometimes for reasons
that are very clear-cut and easy to
communicate to the investors and
sometimes for reasons that remain
shadowy and obscure that's show business
I would not in this context call
willpotter
a scam artist or a fraud and I have been
recently and for a period of about two
years in the position of having to clear
my name defend myself against
unreasonable charges that I was
allegedly involved in some kind of scam
or fraud when I was in an incredibly
simple and transparent
situation where I collected donations
all the donations came in and in a belt
one day about 24 hours to donations were
given to the law firm the law firm press
charges case proceeded and there was
paperwork for everything and when you
put your money into the legal system
what you get back is paperwork so it was
the most straightforward thing
imaginable to debunk those complaints
and on a one-by-one case-to-case basis I
reached out to people whether they were
journalists or other youtubers are just
kind of fear mongers the internet said
oh well you know have you seen the
paperwork have you thought about it are
you wanting to talk to me and tried to
set those misconceptions to rest it's
very difficult to say that I won what
ended up happening was just that I was
convinced of the idiocy and total lack
of personal integrity of my whole
generation of aspiring activists so you
know in a lot of ways it feels like a
defeat even if you've won because what
you're seeing across the board I mean I
was talking to another vegan recently a
long time vegan activist and he kept
saying to me that we're all on the same
team like oh well even though there may
be differences of patience and I had to
say back to him I said well look you
know if you have two teammates people
playing soccer on the same team or
something and one of them accuses the
other of being a pedophile one of them
threatens to stab the other one of them
claims that he has evidence sufficient
to convict the other and states that
he's trying to round up a gain of strong
people to beat up this other person and
carry them to the police station and
press charges and present this evidence
wow you you really think we're all still
on the same team
at what point do we admit there's more
than one team here or there's a there's
a breakdown in this presumed you know
unity
you're imagining and you know I mean
that's a kind of extreme and ridiculous
example although a real one it's not
hypothetical it's a real situation we we
all can learn from but in many cases the
ideological and abstract divisions
between people run deeper our more
invidious our more difficult to overcome
so we're not on the same team and
allegations of fraud allegations of
being a scam artist they do run very
deep I do not find what willpotter
has said in his defense convincing I
don't find him well-spoken I don't find
him articulate the sad thing is in this
world there are a lot of inarticulate
people who are in a sense of what
they're being accused of he obviously
has a somewhat nervous and fidgety and
evasive manner in the video he made
speaking on this issue and he's
obviously resorted to trying to vilify
Steve Hindi trying to you know lash back
at his accusers rather than just
clearing his own name rather than just
coming out and basically apologizing for
a five-year delay in the shooting
schedule and saying sorry to be clear
that was shooting in reference to
filmmaking I should have said in
reference the filmmaking schedule the
word shooting has more than one more
than one meaning thank so much that
there's been a delay in the filming
schedule and he could have said in
pretty much the same words as I said
earlier in this video that he's sorry
but that's show business
I don't think willpotter understands
that the public supporting his project
whether they be donors or investors or
you know
colleagues in the filmmaking world they
really don't care about his relationship
with his wife his relationship with his
children his psychological problems his
therapist his surgeon your personal life
ultimately can't be used to leverage
your political life in that way it can't
this isn't primary school you can't
bring in a note and get an extension
from the teacher but what you can do is
just man up apologize and try to
reassure your audience that even though
there have been five more years in the
schedule than they might have been
expecting that this is going to be the
best phone project ever I noticed that
he wrote a very in articulate update
just a few days ago I think it the date
was just given by the month so quite
recently he put an update on his
Kickstarter talking about some of his
academic publications and the research
he's been doing and how he hopes this
will actually make the Kickstarter
project better than ever in terms of
this film he's planning to make and the
reality is he may have the last laugh
because he's an experienced filmmaker
he's an experienced journalist and
probably with or without this budget he
could have made this project a success
and now conversely if it's not a success
if it's terrible filmmaking we can
already see here a lot of reasons for
why it might turn out to be a very bad
project indeed he has managed a lien aid
and make enemies out of exactly the
people he should have been interviewing
and even celebrating in this same
documentary it's veteran activists like
Steve Hindi people who've used drones in
the past people have been exposing
factory farm conditions veteran
activists for example at Mercy for
Animals
it's another vegan non-profit foundation
those are the people he should have been
putting on camera not just appealing to
for help but he should have been telling
their life stories he should have been
talking to them about their families and
I don't know their trips to the doctor
are there there are times with the
psychiatrist whatever it may be those
are the stories he should have been
putting on camera he should have been
getting sympathy and support and
cooperation from
actually all of the people he's now
ended up really turning into a kind of
embittered opposition against this
project this case study illustrates two
big themes number one we are not all on
the same team
it's fractious and fragmentary and at
the best of times that fragmentary
nature means that we have meaningful
criticism mutual scrutiny and exchange
of views but the second big theme here
is total lack of personal integrity and
obviously this whole story this in this
case the accusations and
counter-accusations and you guys can
take the time and see the details of
exactly what willpotter has said and
trying to blacken the character of Steve
Hindi and then Steve Hindi goes to the
police and deals with the details in the
police reports it's nasty it's pretty
dark it does not reflect well on
willpotter
at all it really is ultimately all about
personal integrity and for me sadly this
is just one more fable showing how
scarce personal integrity is out there
and what a massive disincentive this is
for people taking on ambitions that in
any way rely on human cooperation if I
had taken the same energy I put into
vegan activism over the last four years
and put it into painting I could have
developed my skills as a painter and I
say that not with any reckless self
confidence as to my talent or the public
having demand for my paintings but
primarily because painting is indeed
something it's a set of skills that I
can refine in isolation without really
depending on other human beings as it
happens most of my passions in life
really require high
levels of trust and mutual cooperation
politics is one and another one is
language sitting completely alone your
ability to make progress in a language
like Cree or a jib way or lotion or
Cambodian he's incredibly limited
language like politics really needs a
critical mass of even five people but
small groups of people language work is
not the kind of work you want to be
stuck doing alone and as I say it's
really with great sadness that I now
have to look back at what has happened
in the last four years or five years and
I have to admit that I'm so let down by
my colleagues and contemporaries that I
would have been better off taking those
efforts taking that energy taking that
time and funneling it into an area of
study an area of research or even an
area of creative self-expression
in which I could be completely
self-reliant because I'm very much very
very deeply disappointed with an entire
generation of people who have a lot more
in common with Klaus than they did with
me people who seem to have zero
appreciation for the importance of in
two words
personal integrity about us yen